# GSquirrel
Team Members: Romario Joseph - romario.joseph001@umb.edu, Sumaya Abdullahi - sumaya.abdullahi001@umb.edu, Tydina Muhammad - tydina.muhammad001@umb.edu, Aidan McGinnis - Aidan.McGinnis001@umb.edu, Vitoria Gomes de Mattos Sousa - gomesdemattossous001@umb.edu, Kasey Omahony - kasey.omahony001@umb.edu)
Species: Eastern gray squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis)
5 hypothesis:
Hypothesis 1: The article hypothesizes that conspecifics, heterospecific competitors and predators, with the most pronounced response being to calls of predators. We suggest that squirrels may view conspecific and corvid vocalizations as cues of potential conflict while foraging, necessitating increased vigilance. They use white noise as a control so that the squirrels aren’t reacting to every noise they hear. The independent variable are the sounds that the scientists used, the dependent variable was the squirrels reaction when they were foraging. My critique is that they Used the sounds intermittently instead of constantly and used iTunes for the sound. It may sound exaggerated to the squirrels or not as natural. They also used only one sound per each squirrel they encountered. To build off of the hypothesis I thought that Squirrels use sound cues during foraging as a way to determine if danger is nearby without losing focus or finding food. 
Hypothesis 2: The article hypothesizes that the squirrels’ alarm calling sequences are influenced by a more complex temporal sequencing of acoustic units. There was no control, the independent variable was the duration and pitch of the squirrel’s calls. The dependent variable were the perceived threats from the squirrels. Although I can understand why it is difficult to have a control since this is an observational study, the lack of having a control group can mislead the scientists to create the wrong conclusions since they have to deduce exactly the reason why the squirrels are making call noises. Our new hypothesis is Squirrels use a variety of noises and movements to warn other squirrels of a threat that is within the area.
Hypothesis 3: The article hypothesizes that squirrels' use sounds made by nature, to determine whether it is safe to go foraging on that given day. Sounds from nature can include wind gusts, rain falling, and more. If there are strong winds outside, it may be unsafe for squirrels to do activities such as climbing trees, gathering food, etc. The same can be said for heavy rain or snow fall as well. 
Hypothesis 4: https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10211-021-00372-z; Article hypothesis:    Black squirrels were no more aggressive than non-black squirrels; Control: observation study present / not present behaviors; Independent variable:  fur coloration (black/ non - black); Dependent variable:   Behavior ( chasing other squirrels, interacting with humans); Critique:   “this study are that the data were not collected by trained ethologists and that inter-observer reliability tests were not conducted.'' The squirrels were not kept track of so you may be observing the same behavior from the same squirrel that doesn't represent every squirrel. Observing squirrels in a populated squirrel are more likely to see them interact with humans because one squirrel will follow the other if doing so. Your hypothesis:  Eastern grey squirrels are better at controlling stress - Written paragraph: In this article they talk about the aggressiveness of squirrels and whether different breeds of squirrels are more aggressive than others and or more likely to interact with humans.  After walking heavily populated squirrel parks day and night watching their behaviors and taking notes, they realized that there was not much difference between how the squirrels predicted whether they were black or non black squirrels. My critique is that the squirrels were not really properly tracked as to if they were observed or not already. The article does say that the “black” squirrels didn't seem to be as stressed so my hypothesis is that “black” squirrels are not more aggressive because they can handle stress better.  
Hypothesis 5: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31483829/ - Article hypothesis:   Eastern gray squirrels eavesdrop on non-alarm auditory cues as indicators of safety and adjust their vigilance level in accordance with the vigilance level of other species that share the same predators. - Control:  chatter treatment - Independent variable:   30 trials with the chatter treatment, and 37 trials with the ambient noise treatment.Independent variable:   safety levels , looking up, vigilant; Dependent variable:  30 trials with the chatter treatment, and 37 trials with the ambient noise treatment.; Critique: stress out the squrilles with fearful sounds; Your hypothesis:  different animal groups can communicate by safety levels.; Written paragraph - In this article, they explain how they went threw with their experiment with seeing if squirrels see bird chatter as a sign of no predators around. They played two different sounds to the squirrels and tracked if they seem to be very vigilant, or on edge, and tracked how many times they looked up. If they weren’t looking up to much that meant they felt safe. My critique is that this can cause stress to the squirrels. For my hypothesis, I think that even though animals of different families don’t communicate the same, there are many of them that can relate and communicate on safety levels. 
Chosen Hypothesis Research Design: The hypothesis that our group selected is that Squirrels use sound cues during foraging as a way to determine if danger is nearby without losing focus or finding food. In order to enact this we decided that a Quasi Experimental study would make the most sense since the majority of our research would have to be observational based. There is not going to be a control group since we cannot gather the squirrels. It is also better to have the squirrels in their natural environment because the squirrels will react genuinely to any stimuli present in their world. The plan is that the recorder will slowly approach the squirrel and observe their reaction to the recorder. To avoid Practice effects we will use a different squirrel when observing. Some of the questions that will be asked when the recorder is observing would be: is the squirrel turned towards the recorder? Does it acknowledge the recorder? Does it seem defensive when approached? Is it running away from the recorder or is there another external force? Due to our style of research the study is prone to human error since it is an observational study. We must infer what the squirrel’s behavior means so the observer is prone to guessing incorrectly. There is also the possibility that other external factors could make the squirrel display behaviors that we previously did not observe. 
Ethical Considerations: cs - Based on our understanding on chapter 3 of ethics, we couldn't manipulate our animals and place them in a controlled environment. Due to the lack of data there was a reliability issues because we only submitted 30 videos to support our hypothesis. It would have been a stronger case if we had more opportunity and access to observe squirrels in their natural habitat in terms of sounds. One issue we encountered as a team was the inability to upload videos that were not our own to support our hypothesis. Throughout the investigation some of the demographic risks include squirrels being dangerous, and the animals not being in their natural habitat, which would be beneficial to us conducting the experiment. Any interaction with the animal that may cause them to change their usual behavior requires full ethical approval from the IACUC (institutional animal care and use committee). In order to protect not only the animals but also ourselves as researchers. In terms of culture and values that need to be considered; we focused on the freedom for the animals, in regard to how the animal exist and made sure to not apply any danger and harm to them. If we were to publish our research it wouldn't be plagiarized due to the fact all of the videos were ours and nothing was taken from somewhere else.
